AQUATIC FACILITY MANAGER
Class Code:        2423
Open Date:  05-29-15
Revised: 06-09-15

                            (Exam Open to All, including Current City Employees)

ANNUAL SALARY
$44,933 to $65,688; $58,049 to $73,163; and $55,728 to $81,473

    NOTES

1. Candidates from the eligible list are normally appointed to vacancies in the lower pay grade positions.
2. The current salary range is subject to change. You may confirm the starting salary with the hiring department before accepting a job offer.

DUTIES

An Aquatic Facility Manager directs or assists in the direction of the operation of a City pool, ocean beach, or lake facility.

REQUIREMENT

Graduation from an accredited four-year college or university and 1200 hours of paid experience as a Seasonal Pool Manager.

NOTES:

1. Applicants must include the specific beginning and ending dates (month, day and year); and number of hours worked per week.
2. At the time of appointment you must present a valid certificate in Water Safety Instruction, Standard First Aid Instruction, and CPR.
3. In addition to the regular City application, all applicants must complete the Aquatic Facility Manager Qualifications Questionnaire at the time of filing.
4. Some positions may require a valid California driver's license. Candidates may not be eligible for appointment to these positions if they do not possess a valid California driver's license.
5. Applicants using City of Los Angeles experience must submit a Verification of Work Experience (VWE) form. The VWE form must be submitted within 7 calendar days from the on-line submission date.
6. Applicants required to submit a VWE form will have 7 calendar days from the on-line submission date to submit a copy of their VWE form.

WHERE TO APPLY

Applications will only be accepted on-line. When you are viewing the on-line job bulletin of your choice, simply scroll to the bottom of the bulletin and follow the instructions to submit your application.

NOTES:

1. Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure you have time to resolve any technical issues you may encounter.
2. All application materials must be complete at the time of filing for you to be considered a candidate in this examination.



APPLICATION DEADLINE

Applications must be received by THURSDAY, JUNE 18, 2015.

In accordance with Civil Service Rule 4.2, all applicants who apply may not be tested in this examination. To meet anticipated hiring needs, the examination may be administered on an as-needed basis.


QUALIFICATIONS REVIEW

Should a large number of qualified candidates file for this examination, each candidate's qualifications for the position may be tested in this examination.

SELECTION PROCEDURES

Examination Weight: Interview........................................................................................................

The examination will consist entirely of an evaluation of professional and personal qualifications by interview. In the interview portion, the following elements will be considered: Professional Experience; Problem-Solving Ability; Decision-Making Ability; Verbal Communication Skills; Interpersonal Skills; and Writing Ability.

Additionally, the interview board will consider the information in the candidate's City Employment Application and any supplemental application(s) submitted at the time of the interview.

Candidates will be notified by e-mail of the date and time of the interview, which will be in Los Angeles.

CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT:

1. Candidates must achieve a qualifying time on the qualifying swimming test. The test will be given only to those candidates who meet the minimum qualifications.
A. 70-foot Dummy Tow. Rescue of a dummy from the bottom of the pool (12 feet under water and 70 feet from the start point).
B. 200-yard Medley Swim. Using proper style and form, swimming 50 yards of each of the following in sequence: conventional freestyle, backstroke, breaststroke, and butterfly.
2. The qualifying time is a weighted time of less than 9 minutes for the two events. This time is computed by adding the actual time for the 70-foot Dummy Tow and the 200-yard Medley Swim.
3. Newly appointed candidates will be required to pass a medical examination given by a City physician.
4. After appointment, Aquatic Facility Managers will be required to satisfactorily complete an in-service training course conducted by the City.
5. After appointment to the class of Aquatic Facility Manager, incumbents must successfully complete a timed swim test of 500 yards.

NOTES:

1. Based on City policy, before being hired in one of these positions, you may be required to undergo a drug and alcohol screening test.
2. As a covered entity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of disability and upon request will provide reasonable accommodation to ensure equal access to its programs, services, and activities.
3. Applications are accepted subject to review to ensure that minimum qualifications are met. Candidates may be disqualified at any time if it is determined that they do not possess the minimum qualifications stated on this bulletin.
4. A final average score of 70% is required to be placed on the eligible list.
5. If in accordance with the Rule of Three Whole Scores all applicants are eligible for appointment consideration, the examination will be administered on an as-needed basis.

Notice:

If you receive and accept an offer of employment to a regular position with the City of Los Angeles, your employee benefits will be governed by the City's Civil Service Rules and the specific provisions of the Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) applicable to your classification.

THIS EXAMINATION IS TO BE GIVEN
ONLY ON AN OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS

The City of Los Angeles does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, or disability.
Class Code 2423......................................................................................

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

